ROLE OF YOUTH IN NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

The term - nation building or national development, is usually used to refer to a constructive process of engaging all citizens in building social cohesion, economic prosperity and political stability in a nation in an inclusive and democratic way. Going by the definition, it is seen that all citizens are to be involved in building or developing a nation. Thus, the involvement of youth in national development is a must. In fact, youths play one of the most important roles in nation building. Youth are not only the leaders of tomorrow, but also the partners of today. Young people are social actors of change and progress. They are a crucial segment of a nation's development

They have bubbling enthusiasm which has to be regulated and utilized the right way. This can surely ensure rapid national development. After all, all the people can only exercise their full potential when they are young and energetic. Youth is that period in which revolutionary thoughts spring to mind and these thoughts shape the world we live in. Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft Corporation, is a living example. He had a revolutionary thought and he exercised his thought and look, how he has changed the world today! The policies and development works of a nation can only be carried out by the youth. As said earlier, they are the social actors of change and progress. They carry out the policies and do all the development works which older people are incapable of actually carrying out.

It is to be noted that most of the problems we face are also because of youth. It is true that youth have got energy, skill, hopes, and dreams and along with those the determination and exuberance but they also lack proper and critical thinking. Thus youth which could have been the pioneer of some world-changing act may very well become world-destroying terrorists. Thus, here lies the role of a nation and its government in guiding the youth to the correct way of living and in utilizing their vital energy and desire for the betterment of the nation. For this, proper education system and good political situation is required. Moral education is a must for this as well. If youth can be motivated and educated the right way, they surely can spearhead the progress of a nation and make the world a better place to live.
